---
uid: Cre8magic.Library.Deploy.Index
---

# cre8magic – Package and Deploy Your Theme

> [!TIP]
> This explains how to package your theme with all the necessary assets and libraries from cre8magic ♾️.

## Introduction

A theme inside Oqtane consists a combination of

1. DLL files
1. JavaScript files
1. CSS files
1. Images

The way these are placed in your Oqtane is different during development and during deployment.
This should help you understand what is happening under the hood, to ensure your theme works as expected.

## Development Setup

During development of your theme, you will usually have a setup which does things such as:

1. Compile your theme code and deploy to your development Oqtane
1. Deploy any additional theme assets in a `wwwroot/[your-theme-name]/` folder
1. Include all necessary DLLs, including dependent cre8magic libraries
1. Include all necessary JavaScript files from cre8magic

All this is usually handled by your **Packaging** project, called `[YourCompany].[YourTheme].Package`.

Basic deployment of your theme and its assets happens through the `debug.cmd` in that project,
which was probably generated by Oqtane when the theme-project was created.

## Include cre8magic DLLs and JS During Development

The `Client/[YourCompany].Theme.[YourTheme].Client.csproj` file includes a `ToSic.Cre8magic.Oqtane` **PackageDependency** with the extra attribute `GeneratePathProperty="true"`. This generates the `"$(PkgToSic_Cre8magic_Oqtane)` property, which contains the path to the assets of this NuGet package.

Using this property, an MSBuild task copies the static web assets to your `/oqtane.framework/Oqtane.Server/wwwroot/_content/ToSic.Cre8magic.Oqtane/` folder as part of the project **Build** process.

Similarly, **building** the `Client/[YourCompany].Theme.[YourTheme].Package.csproj` in **Debug** configuration will execute the `debug.cmd` file. This script copies the `ToSic.Cre8magic.Client.Oqtane.dll` and `ToSic.Cre8Magic.OqtaneBs5.Client.Oqtane.dll` files to the Oqtane development environment.


## Include cre8magic DLLs and JS in Package (Deployment)

When you are ready to deploy your theme to a production server,
you will need to create a NuGet package containing all these resources.
It will contain things like:

1. Your theme DLLs
1. Your theme JavaScript files
1. Your theme CSS files
1. Your theme images
1. All necessary DLLs, including dependent cre8magic libraries
1. All necessary JavaScript files from cre8magic in the `/wwwroot/_content/ToSic.Cre8magic.Oqtane/` folder

This is also handled by your **Packaging** project, called `[YourCompany].[YourTheme].Package`.

The part that makes it happen is the `release.cmd` in that project,
which was probably generated by Oqtane when the theme-project was created.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The default `release.cmd` is not smart enough to handle additional libraries and resources,
> so you might need to adjust it to include the cre8magic resources.

## Changes to Ensure cre8magic Assets and DLLs are Included

TODO: @STV I don't get this at all. Please explain better and include examples / what must be done.

Your `[YourCompany].Theme.[YourTheme].nuspec` file should have additional **file** elements to include cre8magic DLLs (`ToSic.Cre8magic.Client.Oqtane.dll`, `ToSic.Cre8Magic.OqtaneBs5.Client.Oqtane.dll`) and cre8magic JS (`oqtane.framework\Oqtane.Server\wwwroot\_content\ToSic.Cre8magic.Oqtane\**\*.*`) in the package.